
# Repository Title: Final_Project_Environmental_Data_Analytics

## Summary

<describe the purpose of this repository, the information it contains, and any relevant analysis goals. What, why, where, when, how?>

This repository will house all materials for my final project for Environmental Data Analytics. My project will seek to examine the occurence of water quality contaminants and their potential relationship to median household income of the county, size of the community water system (CWS), the state in which the CWS is located, and so on. 

Preliminary research questions:
Is median household income correlated with the occurrence drinking water contaminants such as arsenic, PFAS, trihalomethane, and uranium?
Does a high concentration of one contaminant correlate with that of another?
Does the size of the CWS or the geographic location of the system correlate with the occurennce of these contaminants?
Do the concentrations of these contaminants vary in one particular location over time?

## Investigator

**Rachel Gonsenhauser**
Duke University
Email: rachel.gonsenhauser@duke.edu
Role: Data assembler

## Keywords

Drinking water, water quality, water systems, arsenic, per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), trihalomethane, uranium, median household income

## Database Information

<describe the origin of all data in the repository, including data collected from outside sources and new data generated by the investigator(s). If data was accessed from an outside database, the date(s) of data access should also be included.>

Data was collected from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Environmental Public Health Tracking Network. This tool can be found at: https://ephtracking.cdc.gov/DataExplorer/#/. Data was accessed on February 26, 2020. 

Separate datasets from this source were combined by the data assembler into one processed dataset for analyses.


## Folder structure, file formats, and naming conventions 

<describe the folders contained in the repository, including what type of files they contain>

The repository includes the following folders of files:

**Code**: files include coding sessions including cleaning/wrangling, visualization, and analysis of the data.
**Data**: files include data from the CDC database discussed above. Data file types include Raw and Processed.
**Output**
**Project Files**

<describe the formats of files for the various purposes contained in the repository>

File formats for the files contained in the repository include:
`.md`: text file, such as this README file
`.Rmd`: R markdown file, the format for all coding sessions
`.csv`: delimited text file, the format for all data files

<describe your file naming conventions>

Data files are named according to the following naming convention: `databasename_datatype_details_stage.format`, where: 

**databasename** refers to the database from where the data originated

**datatype** is a description of data 

**details** are additional descriptive details, particularly important for processed data 

**stage**refers to the stage in data management pipelines (e.g., raw, cleaned, or processed)

**format** is a non-proprietary file format (e.g., .csv, .txt)

*if just a few files for wrangling, etc., may not need to go a lot into naming convention...act like uyou're showing somebody who is coming in with no knowledge and telling them what they need to know

## Metadata

<For each data file in the repository, describe the data contained in each column. Include the column name, a description of the information, the class of data, and any units associated with the data. Create a list or table for each data file.> 

most important to have this done for processed data files, if just pulling and joining from raw to processed, the one used for analysis is the key one youu put column names for in the metadata

**especially when I decided to go from 2013-2015 to 2014 for PFAS data, to bring to a common unit of analysis, this substantially changed the meaning of the data but my rationale is x 

for this seciton, provide links to metadata from cdc 

## Scripts and code

<list any software scripts/code contained in the repository and a description of their purpose.>

list of the scripts that you've created for the projects and noting what is in these, so names of the files and a description of what each file is doing e.g. "this is where i took raw data and processed it doing x, y, z...", say things like that

## Quality assurance/quality control

<describe any relevant QA/QC procedures taken with your data. Some ideas can be found here:>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/develop-quality-assurance-and-quality-control-plan>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/ensure-basic-quality-control>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/communicate-data-quality>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/identify-outliers>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/identify-values-are-estimated>